King recalls that "When, during the course of an interview for The New Yorker, I told the interviewer (Mark Singer) that I believed stories are found things, like fossils in the ground, he said that he didn't believe me.
I replied that that was fine, as long as he believed that I believe it.
And I do.
Stories aren't souvenir tee-shirts or GameBoys.
Stories are relics, part of an undiscovered pre-existing world.
The writer's job is to use the tools in his or her toolbox to get as much of each one out of the ground intact as possible.
Sometimes the fossil you uncover is small, a seashell.
Sometimes it's enormous, a Tyrannosaurus Rex with all those gigantic ribs and grinning teeth.
Either way, short story or thousand-page whopper of a novel, the techniques of excavation remain basically the same."[147]
King often starts with a "what-if" scenario, such as what would happen if an alcoholic writer was stranded with his family in a haunted hotel (The Shining), or if one could see the outcome of future events (The Dead Zone), or if one could travel in time to alter the course of history (11/22/63).[150] He often places classic horror themes or scenarios in a modern context.
He recalls that while writing 'Salem's Lot, "I decided I wanted to try to use the book partially as a form of literary homage (as Peter Straub had done in Ghost Story, working in the tradition of such 'classical' ghost story writers as Henry James, M. R. James, and Nathaniel Hawthorne).
So my novel bears an intentional similarity to Bram Stoker's Dracula, and after a while it began to seem I was playing an interesting—to me, at least—game of literary racquet-ball: 'Salem's Lot itself was the ball and Dracula was the wall I kept hitting it against, watching to see how and where it could bounce, so I could hit it again.
As a matter of fact, it took some pretty interesting bounces, and I ascribe this mostly to the fact that, while my ball existed in the twentieth century, the wall was very much a product of the nineteenth."[151] Douglas E.
Winter describes Pet Sematary as "a conscious retelling of W.W. Jacobs' "The Monkey's Paw".[152]
Similarly, King's Revival is a modern riff on Mary Shelley's Frankenstein.[153]

